# Week 13
---
## **Oscilloscope**
#### Firing up the Oscilloscope
Here is the video off me using the Osilloscope for the first time.[Osilloscope](https://imgur.com/gallery/PyAWu2B)

#### Function Generator
Here is the video of the Oscilloscope connected to a function generator. [Function Generator](https://imgur.com/gallery/X4sIroo)

#### PWM 5% Change
Here is the video of the PWM change I coded onto the Micro:Bit. [PWM change](https://imgur.com/gallery/Qfbf1kr)

#### Other Servo Function
Here is the Video of the other servo function and what it reads on the Osilloscope. [Servo Function](https://imgur.com/gallery/zu3HMFu)

--- 
## I2C
#### I2C Questions
1. **what are the disadvantages of the other two serial communication channels, UART and SPI, and how does I2C improve on them?**

The disadvantages of the the UART is they are asynchronous meaning that the connected devices must run at around the same clock rate. UART ports also require hardware overhead which means that it requires a bit for each stop and start which eats up the datta rate. UART ports also are intended for communication between two devices it is possible to run more but it is hard to synch up the clock rate on all devices. there is also a data rate issue with UART.

The Disadvantages to SPI are the number of pins to connect the master to the slave. With the SPI it requires four wires to connect. SPI also requires one additional chip select on the master this comes into problem when many slaves need to be connected to one master. There is also the chance of making routing signals more difficult.

I2C improves on this by using only two wires to connect a master to a slave. I2C also allows more than one master and it has a better data rate than UART.

2. **I2C is a two-wire serial communication channel. What are the two wires, SDA and SCL?**

SCL is the clock signal. The clock signal is generated by the current bus master. The SDA is the data signal this consists of 7 address bits (The address where the data is send) an ACK/NACK,read and write and 8 data bits (The data that is being sent ot recieved) and an ACK/NACK.

3. **What distinguishes the master and the slaves?**

The current bus master controls the clock rate slaves do not have this option. Masters can communicate with the slave devices by calling their address and clock rate. The master can send data or read data they called for but a slave must only obey to the read or write command the master is giving. 

4. **How are the two types of protocol frames different?**

The two types of protocol frames are the address frame and the data frame. The address frame is always the start of the communication and tells the slave whther the communication is a read or write. Data frames always come after the address frame was sent and the data is placed on the SDA.

5.  **What is the most appropriate trigger for capturing an I2C frame on the oscilloscope?**

The most appropriate trigger for capturing an I2C frame would be the address frame because that is the start of the communication between the master and slave.

### First Steps with I2C
#### I2C Write Program
Here are the pictures of my setup and screen for my I2C write program on my Micro:Bit [I2C Setup](https://imgur.com/gallery/J4Si1a4) [I2C Osilloscope Screen](https://imgur.com/gallery/3e2PN7c)

1. **What frame did you capture?**

I captured the address frame. 

2. **What does the I2C write function do when there is nothing connected?**

The I2C does nothing when there is nothing connected. The SDA doesn't get pull low because nothing is there to recieve it so the master made the call to not send anyhting. 

3. **Is there a difference in what you capture if you write a number to one of the internal device addresses?**
Yes there was a difference when i wrote to one of the internal devices i was able to get the SDA to get pulled low and send data across. so i was able to see the address frame and also the data frame of the data i sent being read by the slave. 

#### I2C Read Program
Here is my video to my I2C read program and oscilloscope reading. [I2C Read](https://imgur.com/a/KS2SNLQ)

1. **Three Addresses**

The three addresses i tried were 0x0E 0x1E and 0x1D the first two address 0x0E and 0x1E showed nothing (I don't know if i did this wrong) but for address 0x1D where the framers were seperated. 

2. **Signed/Unsigned Single bype integers**

When I used signed and unsigned single bype integers I got the same number but opposite readings.

3. **Scroll values on LED**



4. **What Values did you read?**

Values that I read were 65136, 64957, and 736.
I got negitive values when i changed the single bype signs.

5. **Different values when Micro:bit is moving?**

I did get a change in the values when the Micro:Bit was moving.
